README.md, before:

# Machine Learning with Python 

Python implementation of ML classifiers for ham/spam text classification.

## Motivation

This repository was created to gain a better understanding of the existing Machine Learning algorithms and the foundational concepts behind those. This project implements machine learning algorithms presented in the [Machine Learning with PyTorch and Scikit-Learn Book](https://sebastianraschka.com/blog/2022/ml-pytorch-book.html) for the ham/spam classification problem.

The project use a Spam/Ham dataset foudn on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/bagavathypriya/spam-ham-dataset), manually selected features were extracted from messages using [spacy](https://spacy.io/).


## Running model trainings

A [shell.nix](shell.nix) file is provided with all required packages (and a pinned version). To run trainings, enter the provided nix-shell environement and execute the [train.py](train.py) script:

```bash 
# cd ml-with-python-ham-spam
nix-shell 
python3 train.py
```

## Model performances on dataset

![Performance of models](./img/scores.png)

Commit message:

feat(features): Added new features, standardized model comparison

README.md, after:

# Machine Learning with Python 

Python implementation of ML classifiers for ham/spam text classification.

## Motivation

This repository was created to gain a better understanding of the existing Machine Learning algorithms and all of the concepts behind those. This project implements machine learning algorithms presented in the [Machine Learning with PyTorch and Scikit-Learn Book](https://sebastianraschka.com/blog/2022/ml-pytorch-book.html) on a ham/spam classification problem.

The project use a Spam/Ham dataset foudn on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/bagavathypriya/spam-ham-dataset), manually selected features were extracted from messages using [spacy](https://spacy.io/).


## Running model trainings

A [shell.nix](shell.nix) file is provided with all required packages (and pinned versions). To run trainings, enter the provided nix-shell environement and execute the [train.py](train.py) script:

```bash 
# cd ml-with-python-ham-spam
nix-shell 
python3 train.py
```

## Model performances on dataset
Since we are training multiple models, here is an arbitrary classification performance comparison on also arbitrary hyperparameters values. 

![Performance of models](./img/scores.png)


## TODOs: 
- Find better features so that models can converge.
